Publish minutes of 2025-08-28 meeting (#866)
hober/web-extensions: _minutes/2025-08-28-wecg.md

Call-in details: [WebExtensions CG, 28th August 2025](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/43e4fb8e-4736-445c-b051-2383ffeef033/20250828T080000/)
Zoom issues? Ping @zombie (Tomislav Jovanovic) in [chat](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#joining-chat)

## Agenda: [discussion in #865](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/865), [github issues](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues)

The meeting will start at 3 minutes after the hour.

See [issue 531](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/531) for an explanation of this agenda format.

 * **Announcements** (2 minutes)
 * **Triage** (15 minutes)
   * [Issue 863](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/863): Proposal: add chrome.tabs.captureTab() API to Chromium
   * [Issue 861](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/861): Enhancement request - Expand the Tab Groups API to include some info about Closed Tab Groups
 * **Timely issues** (10 minutes)
   * [Issue 762 comment](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/762#issuecomment-3200174155): DNR: Add excludedTopFrameDomains (and topFrameDomains) ([@kzar](https://github.com/kzar))

>      * "I have a[ draft Chromium PR](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/6851057) for that, and the Chromium team want to make sure others browser vendors are happy before we go ahead."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * "I have a [draft Chromium PR](https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/6851057) for that, and the Chromium team want to make sure others browser vendors are happy before we go ahead."
```

 * **Check-in on existing issues** (20 minutes)
   * [Issue 799](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/799): Add browser.permissions.canAccess() proposal

## Attendees (sign yourself in)

 1. Rob Wu (Mozilla)
 2. David Johnson (Apple)
 3. Lena Cohen (EFF, Privacy Badger)
 4. Oliver Dunk (Google)
 5. Simeon Vincent (Mozilla)
 6. Tomislav Jovanovic (Mozilla)
 7. Mukul Purohit (Microsoft)
 8. Carlos Jeurissen (Jeurissen Apps)

## Meeting notes

[Issue 863](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/863): Proposal: add chrome.tabs.captureTab() API to Chromium

 * [simeon] Rob, do you know anything about the considerations behind why Mozilla decided to add support for captureTab?
 * [rob] captureVisibleTab only captures the visible viewport, and requires host permissions to scroll down in the tab. https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1427463.
 * [simeon] captureVisibleTab captures the visible tab of a window, captureTab can capture any tab, including background tabs. Concerning?
 * [oliver] captureTab requires `<all_urls>`. Seems like a reasonable limitation.

>  * [simeon] I might just be dissatisfied with `<all_urls>` as a general capability restriction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * [simeon] I might just be dissatisfied with `<all_urls>` as a general capability restriction.
```

 * [oliver] Can get issues where screenshots are not properly aligned.
 * [tomislav] I think we just ask for a screenshot as currently scrolled. Won't be totally correct if things aren't scrolled.
 * [oliver] If all browsers implement this with a best effort basis, is that acceptable, or are there behaviors we want to align on?
 * [simeon] At the high level, if we are aligned on the principles, that sounds good?

>  * [rob] Things rendered in the background or tabs that have been discarded, we don't support capturing them. We only provide guarantees for content that is visible. Everything else is done on a best effort basis. If every tab is a million pixels tall, will be difficult to keep that available.

Reviewer: I think this better captures the sentiment @Rob--W expressed.

```suggestion
 * [rob] Things rendered in the background or tabs that have been discarded, we don't support capturing them. We only provide guarantees for content that is visible. Everything else is done on a best effort basis. If every tab is a million pixels tall, we couldn't realistically keep that available in memory.
```

 * [tomislav] We already have other use cases that aren't mentioned, like captureVisibleTab. That's another kind of “can access” use case where we may need additional special casing in the future.
 * [rob] I agree with that.
 * [carlos] I'd be in favor of not having a generic property in order to give developers more specific insight into what kind of access they have.
 * [simeon] My mental model for activeTab is that it is literally the same having a host permission for the tab's origin, but session-bound. I don't know if that's exactly the right set of tradeoffs, but I see a big advantage to this approach in that it greatly simplifies the ability of a new developer to understand what it does and how it works. Predictability and explicability are two of my major concerns with API design in general.
 * [tomislav] Agree, but to throw a wrench in that, should activeTab grant the extension access to the child frames? Should the extension's content scripts run in those frames?
 * [simeon] In this model, no. I fully recognize that's an imperfect tradeoff.
 * [rob] Time check, we're at -1 minutes.

>  * [simeon] We should definitely continue to discuss how activeTab should works here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * [simeon] We should definitely continue to discuss how activeTab works.
```
